# Planet art
This project came as a result of the failures of my previous attempt. My original idea was to create a sort of 'alien sunset' generator, because the colors of the sunset always intrigued me and as such I was interested to see what would result if you changed the physical properties of the atmosphere, planet, and other factors that cause the sunset to look the way it does. I began by building a raytracer which simply calculated the distance from a viewer to a sphere from each pixel if a 'ray' was cast out from the viewer in the direction of said pixel. This was based on the FOV, which could have been randomized or set initially. From here, (and this is where things began to fall apart,) the program would calculate the color of that pixel based on Rayleigh scattering, Mie scattering, and atmospheric absorption, three things which affect the way we see our sky in real life. I spent a lot of time researching these topics, and specifically gathered most of my information from these sources:

  https://www.spc.noaa.gov/publications/corfidi/sunset/
  http://nishitalab.org/user/nis/cdrom/sig93_nis.pdf
  https://www.scratchapixel.com/lessons/procedural-generation-virtual-worlds/simulating-sky/simulating-colors-of-the-sky

To implement these ideas, I needed to implement integration and other calculus functions which proved to be difficult to get right in processing. I seemed to be going in the right directions at some points, only to find that things were not working as I intended them to. I believe that given more time, it could have been a success, but I did not have that much time and I knew that, and as such these failures are mostly my fault for choosing too ambitious of an idea for this project. I plan on finishing this project in the future, however, as the idea still intrigues me. After awhile, I realized that to continue in this direction would likely be a waste of time, as I would not have presentable material at the end of the class. As such, I switched my project idea slightly, still drawing inspiration from planets and the like since that was the mindset I was in. Looking back, I probably switched this too late as well, as this new project does not meet my own standards. In the end, however, I know I can continue to work on these on my own to make them the best that they can be.

The project consists of planets orbiting around their star, randomly generated with their own sizes and velocities. They all interact 'realistically' according to the gravitational pulls they all exert on each other, and so it can be fun to watch them spin and collide and make their paths accross the screen-'sky' in a new way every time. The planets also generate little 2d maps on the panels outside the cafe, showing their locations from a top-down view. Reflecting on this now I realize it may not be considered 'generative art' as much as it would be a simulation, and this is once again my fault for the issues encountered when I had to switch my idea with little time left. In the future I may combine the two ideas to create a system in which you can choose any of the randomly generated planets and watch the sunset from each of them, viewing the other nearby systems in their skies as well. 
Either way, I hope you enjoy the result of the project. Though I am not satisfied with that itself, I am glad that I learned a lot about visual coding and Rayleigh scattering in the process. It was stresful but fun.
